---
title: Week 9
---

Cate was out of office for a few days this week, so while I met with her at the beginning of the week, I spent the rest working on my own and mostly from home. I continued cataloging ETDs and sound recordings, specifically CDs. 
Cataloging music is different from cataloging books and ETDs. With ETDs I do some basic checking of the bibliographic record but am mainly focused on subject analysis to assign subject headings. With CDs, especially the brand new original bib records I've been doing for some of them, a lot more goes into it. Cate provided a text string that automates the 007 and 3XX fields so I'm not having to do repetitive data entry with the fields that are required for all CDs, but the 300 fields look different than books do. Other fields are new to me, like 028 for the music number, 306 for the length of time, 511 for who is in the musical group, and 505 for the names of the songs. These fields are used for other purposes as well, but for cataloging sound recordings, that's what goes into them. 
Another difference is with the main access point. While in AACR2, the artist singing the songs could be the main access point (in the 100 or 110 field), in RDA it needs to be the composer, so if there are different composers for different songs on the disc, or if the band didn't write their own music, then you have to use a 245 without a 100 field. In that case, the singers can go into the 7XX fields.
I've really been enjoying learning how to catalog CDs, and how it differs from the other things I've cataloged.